With us today, we have
Eugene and Odile Nteziryayo.
They’ve graduated
from the 145th class of Gilead,
and they lived through this mayhem.
Odile, now, your family is Tutsi,
and this must have certainly
put them in danger.
The killing was happening
all over the country,
so my parents and my brother were killed.
I saw that some religious leaders
were involved
in killing people in the genocide.
I couldn’t believe how friendly people
who were previously living together
now started killing their neighbors.
How did you get contact with the truth?
So after the genocide,
I was taken in by my aunt
whose family were Jehovah’s Witnesses,
so I began studying the Bible with them.
I was in the Live Forever  book.
I saw a picture of a priest
blessing people in the church,
and then he was blessing troops
who were going to kill.
But also I could see
how brothers and sisters in the congregation
would love and encourage.
And they risked their lives
to take care of one another.
Oh, that’s touching.
Now, Eugene,
your family was not a direct target
of the violence,
but what other hardships did you face?
The economic situation was very difficult.
My family had no money,
and they could not buy food.
I remember my mom
—I can still see her lying on the bed
in complete despair,
not knowing what she could do
for us children.
The elders asked me to go
to the Kingdom Hall,
and when I arrived,
they handed me 18,000 Rwandan francs.
The elders told me
that my brothers and sisters from abroad
offered us this gift.
So I immediately ran back home,
found my mom still lying on the bed,
and gave her the money.
I can still see my mom crying
because of the joy
and thankfulness
of what the brothers had done.
Excellent.
Now, looking back at all the injustices
you and your family have suffered,
Odile, what has helped you
to not become a bitter person?
The preaching work is very important to me
because the more I talk
about the Bible’s promises,
the more they become real to me.
For example, when I talk
about the resurrection hope
and the condition of the dead,
this helps me to feel
that my loved ones are not suffering anymore
and they are waiting to be resurrected.
So this makes me feel happy.
The scripture that comes to mind is
1 John 2:6, 7,
where the apostle John repeated
Jesus’ command
of loving one another just as Jesus loved us.
Christians during that time
were facing persecution,
and now they needed a fresh application
of that scripture in their lives.
We all love one another,
but during difficult moments
like the ones our brothers in Rwanda
went through,
they needed that fresh application
of this very commandment of Jesus:
loving one another to the point
of risking our lives for our brothers.
Being here in Gilead
has reminded me of that fact
—that I really need to love
my brothers and sisters
as Jesus loved us.
You brothers and sisters in Rwanda
have given us a wonderful example
of courage and faith and love.
Please know that we love you all very much.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining us
on this edition of Extraordinary Experiences.